---
categories: Programming, Random
date: 2010/12/23 22:38:00
permalink: /~gb/blog/2010/12/23/site-search-using-whoosh/
tags: ''
title: Site Search Using Whoosh
---
I tried Google custom search for my updated site but I was unhappy with the control I had over what got indexed, so I decided to implement my own. 

A quick search revealed the awesome Whoosh_ search library. It is very well documented and super easy to use. 

.MORE.

I wrote a 50-line python script (`buildIndex.py`_) to walk the _site directory and index the generated html files. It would be cool to integrate this into the Blogofile_ build process as a filter but I knew I could get a separate indexer going quicker.

I've got a 40-line python cgi script (`searchIndex.cgi`_)to implement a jsonp_ service to search the index. This is called by 26 lines of javascript (`search.js`_) on the search page to display the results. 

I'm very satisfied with the result and the ease of getting it going. I simply added the buildIndex script to my `Post-Receive Service Hook`_ for automatically updating the site when I push to github. It takes about 15 seconds to index my 350 pages. Searches take milliseconds. 

.. _Blogofile: http://blogofile.com/

.. _`buildIndex.py`: https://github.com/gbishop/blog/blob/master/buildIndex.py

.. _`searchIndex.cgi`: https://github.com/gbishop/blog/blob/master/searchIndex.cgi

.. _`search.js`: https://github.com/gbishop/blog/blob/master/js/search.js

.. _`Post-Receive Service Hook`: https://github.com/gbishop/blog/blob/master/updateSite.cgi

.. _Whoosh: https://bitbucket.org/mchaput/whoosh/wiki/Home

.. _jsonp: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON
